=Love Story in the 1970s=
=Episode 27=
Lin Mei.
We've been waiting three days already.
Did anyone ask around
at the cooperative?
I remember that day,
he said he was going to catch a train.
Do you think
he might've left it on the train?
How about we turn
the money in to the police?
We've been stuck with it.
I can't even sleep in peace.
I keep dreaming it's gone.
Fei Ting.
If no one comes looking for it,
do you think it's possible
we could keep the money...
No.
That's not possible.
It's someone else's money.
I wouldn't feel right using it.
Right.
I was just
thinking out loud.
Let's wait three more days.
If no one shows up after that,
we'll take it to the police.
Okay.
Let's sleep.
Comrade Fei Ting,
I was wrong earlier.
I shouldn't have had the thoughts.
Thank you for correcting me in time.
Go to sleep.
Sleep.
Morning.
Morning, Ms. Fang.
Morning, Mom.
I brought you two eggs.
You should have some extra protein.
No need. I've already eaten.
And call me Ms. Mu.
Got it, Mom.
I'll leave the eggs here.
Have them if you get hungry.
Ms. Fang, step outside with me.
Mom.
Fang Mujing.
What are you trying to do?
Mom...
Don't call me Mom.
You already cut ties with us.
That was just for show.
In my heart, I never
cut ties with you.
Besides,
I never asked you to claim me.
Can't I claim you instead?
No.
I'm not your mother anymore.
Sorry, you don't get to decide that.
Unless you can put me back in your womb,
you'll always be my mom.
I told you,
don't call me that
ever again!
Only my mom can lecture me.
I'm off, Mom.
Mujing,
Ms. Mu is really your mom?
Yeah.
The Mu in my name comes from her.
Oh my God.
No wonder you two look so alike.
With brains like yours,
you must...
Mom,
can I borrow an eraser?
Thanks, Mom.
(Long live the unity of the world)
Welcome.
Mr. Yuan,
looks like you're enjoying
being a waiter.
Lost a bet last time.
You actually left the newspaper.
A bet's a bet.
Actually,
you didn't really lose that day.
I took Fei Ni's words to heart.
Every single one.
Most of the time,
reality is powerful enough on its own.
All we have to do is capture it.
So when I was drawing that day,
I borrowed
some of your strengths and style.
You didn't lose to me.
You lost to me and to yourself.
Then you really should thank my wife.
By the way,
I'm here for something important.
The publishing house is putting out
a batch of novels about educated youth.
They need illustrations.
Interested
in working with me?
And don't worry.
I won't touch a single stroke this time.
Mr. Yuan,
who's the author?
Not decided yet.
If you and I
finish this smoothly,
I'll try to get you a position
at the publishing house.
What do you think?
No need, Mr. Yuan.
I'm quite happy with my current job.
It's free.
I draw whatever I want.
These are all mine.
(Cold dishes, cold ham)
(Cream bread,
dinner rolls, sliced baguette.)
(Math Department Teaching Office)
Okay. That's it for today.
(Educators must first be educated.)
Mom,
you should head back and rest.
Fang Mujing,
you weren't like this before.
You weren't either.
I'm telling you,
if you dare call me Mom again...
Mom...
Still working?
Mujing and I will walk you home later.
Yes.
No need.
Qu Hua,
are you free Tuesday?
I should be.
Why?
Have dinner at my place with me.
Sure.
Oh, right.
Tell Fang Muyang.
Give him a heads-up.
Keeping up the momentum?
No.
This is persistence.
Mr. Yuan said
the novel about educated youth
still doesn't have an author.
Want to give it a try?
Me?
I've only ever published one article.
Who said just one?
There's also
that brilliant comic review.
Comrade Tian Xueying.
(I'm reading readers' letters.)
That many?
Especially this one.
Let me read it.
A letter from Comrade Tian Xueying.
You...
When did you find out?
The moment I got it.
I recognize your handwriting.
Then why ask me to reply?
I'm not much with words.
At most I'd write back...
"Too kind."
"Thank you."
But seriously,
why not submit something?
I don't want Mr. Yuan's help.
You don't have to.
Did you forget?
We have a cultured man
in the house.
Dad,
do you know anyone
at a publishing house?
The publishing house?
Of course I do.
Remember Mr. Li?
When you were little,
he always came by.
He works at a publishing house.
Why?
Could you help submit
Fei Ni's novel?
Sure.
But I won't pull strings.
No favors.
It's fair competition.
So,
what are you planning to write?
The theme this time is
educated youth.
Life as an educated youth?
That's good.
However,
don't focus only on them.
You could add
an elderly intellectual
to the story.
For example,
a resilient,
optimistic old painter.
Right?
Better yet,
a landscape painter.
Yes,
that's the idea.
Dad,
we don't have a theme yet.
Let's save the supporting roles
for later.
Fine.
Alright.
Fei Ni,
go see your brother tomorrow.
He was an educated youth too.
Gather more material.
If you need to interview
a supporting character,
I'm OK.
Got it, Dad.
I think
the lead should be
a male educated youth.
Make it moving.
For example,
he volunteers to go
to the countryside for his sister.
If it's written by a woman,
then it should be about a woman.
What?
Women can't brave the elements?
Of course,
there are female educated youth.
I just think the lead
works better as a man.
Let me say something.
It doesn't matter
whether the lead is male or female.
What matters is a harmonious family.
Write about their home life.
For example, the parents.
They're wonderful.
Especially the father.
He plays chess.
He practices Tai Chi.
Right?
Alright, alright.
I can hear all your scheming
from next door.
Ni finally has a chance
to prove herself.
I have no demands.
Write it however you like.
Just one thing.
Maybe you could use my name.
Baoying.
It sounds like
a fearless,
inspiring,
heroic young woman.
Fine.
Mom, I'll use it.
Then my name's even better.
"Lin Mei" works too.
You can use them all.
Make it the whole family.
Listen to me. I know this stuff.
Put our stories in there too.
Right?
How about writing your father
as a chess player?
I went to the countryside too.
From a woman's perspective, it should...
Chen.
Ling Yi.
You're here.
Sorry to keep you waiting.
Sit.
What is it?
Chen,
I don't want to stay
in the Publicity Division.
Transfer me to your department.
A transfer?
That won't be easy.
But it's not impossible.
It depends...
It depends on your performance.
You dare hit me?
Because you're a pervert!
Ye Feng!
Chen, go!
- What are you doing? Let go.
- Just go.
Ling Yi, let go.
Ye Feng.
Leave now.
Let go of me!
Ye Feng, this is a school.
What do you think you're doing?
Stop defending him!
Ye Feng,
this is where we first met.
This is where we began.
Let's end it here, too.
You really want a divorce?
Ye Feng,
you're lazy,
but I'm not.
Why can't you just be content?
Is our life really that bad?
If I were that easy to satisfy,
I'd still be in Great Northern
Wilderness feeding pigs.
I wouldn't have gone to my senior
again and again for you.
I wouldn't have pushed you to study!
Tomorrow at 10 AM,
at the subdistrict office.
(Family Quarters)
(Unite and strive for greater victories)
Where's Ling Yi?
Didn't I tell you?
Go talk to her properly.
Win her back.
She's with another man.
Her senior.
Chen Donghua.
You mean
Ling Yi has a moral conduct issue?
Son,
that's serious.
You can't just
throw accusations
at your own wife.
Mom,
I saw it myself.
I agreed to divorce her.
That's indecent!
Some bureau chief's secretary?
Ye Feng,
write a report.
Tomorrow I'll go
to their workplace
and report him.
Mom,
forget it.
Let it go?
How can we let it go?
If we report Chen Donghua, Ling Yi...
She won't graduate.
You're getting divorced,
and you still care about her?
I'm the one who chose the divorce.
Mom,
that's it.
That's it.
(Can you teach me how to shoot hoops?)
(Ling Yi,)
(you've been so good to me.)
(If I didn't like you,)
(I'd have to be blind.)
(This abacus)
(is my gift for you.)
(Study hard.)
(I'm not cut out for this.)
(I don't even want to learn.)
(Even if I'm a lump of mud,)
(I'll have to climb higher!)
(Ling Yi)
(You're lazy, but I'm not.)
(This is where we began.)
(Let's end it here, too.)
(Divorce Certificate,
Ye Feng and Ling Yi)
Anything left to pick up at home?
Another time.
Okay.
I'll go first.
Here, Ms. Xu.
Take a look.
Wonderful!
It's exactly like the photo.
Thank you, Fang.
You're welcome.
Could you paint those people
(Long live the unity of the world)
behind me,
so it feels like
I'm standing together
with the people of the world?
It's doable.
Ms. Xu,
I have a request, too.
What is it?
Could I borrow the café's coffee pot
and take it home for a night?
Store policy says
nothing leaves the premises.
How about this?
I'll leave
a ten-yuan deposit
and my work ID.
Okay?
Ms. Xu,
just one night.
I'll bring it back in the morning.
I won't damage it.
Alright. Just one night.
Great.
No problem.
Here, Fei Ni.
Try it.
Will this even help?
Take a sip and see.
So bitter.
Is it too strong?
Too strong?
Let me try.
Yeah.
It's a bit strong.
But it'll help you focus.
Alright.
Don't waste it.
Wide awake now.
♪If the future cannot be grasped♪
♪Don't think too far ahead,
just work hard for today♪
The coffee works wonders!
♪Light up the corners that need it♪
♪The ones who smile the most,
gain the most in return♪
♪I want a life that's real,
steady, feet on solid ground♪
♪Our paths begin to cross♪
♪Each day
holds something to look forward to♪
♪Live it real.
Two people, three meals, four seasons♪
♪Collecting ordinary moments in life,
making them into memories♪
Ling Yi,
are you free in a few days?
Come on a work trip with me.
Chen,
when can you arrange my transfer?
Relax.
Don't rush.
One step at a time.
Chen,
as for us,
let's also take it slow.
Come on.
Don't worry.
I'll speed things up.
Ling Yi,
give me a kiss.
Chen, we're at school.
It's fine. No one will see.
Chen Donghua!
What do you think you're doing?
Honey...
Wait...
It's not...
There's nothing between us!
She threw herself at me for a transfer!
You dare seduce my husband?
Shameless woman!
Chen,
you're married?
Of course, I am.
Ling Yi,
you're morally corrupt.
Don't contact me again.
Let's go.
I'm telling you,
just wait.
I'm reporting you to the school.
What are you staring at?
Move!
(Jiangcheng University,
Teaching Building No. 1)
(Ling Yi,)
(in light of your misconduct,)
(you are hereby expelled.)
Fei!
Someone sent you
a commendation banner.
(Money Lost and Found)
Fei!
Comrade, over here.
Alright.
Fei Ting.
Lin Mei.
Mom.
Dad.
What is this?
This is the owner.
That day,
he was rushing to catch a train.
He thought he left his bag on it.
That's why it took him days to find you.
Comrade, here.
(Money Lost and Found)
Thank you.
If not for you,
I'd never have gotten it back.
Thank you.
Well done.
Fei.
That's the pride of our neighborhood!
So wonderful.
This boy has had
my integrity since day one.
That's right.
Exactly.
Wonderful.
He's made us all proud!
(To Comrades Lin Mei and Fei Ting
for their honesty. From Li Weihong)
(Overview of Jiangcheng
No. 1 Textile Factory)
Make sure these figures are accurate.
Be careful.
Report.
Alright.
Fei Ting's here.
Here, take this.
Come in.
Yes, Vice Director.
Vice Director Chen,
what did you need me for?
Good news.
You returned
the lost money
and showed real integrity.
Take a look.
(Comrade Fei Ting is approved
as a full-time cook.)
I hereby announce
that you are
being made permanent.
Comrade Fei Ting,
welcome back
to the Jiangcheng No. 1 Textile Factory.
Thank you, Vice Director.
You put your work skills to good use.
Save your strength
and make us more good food.
I won't let you down.
Alright.
Go on.
Yes.
How is it?
Haven't played in a while.
Where
did this come from?
The authorities
have started
restoring my parents' status.
They returned our family's belongings.
That's wonderful.
Come try it.
♪After the laughter, I think of you♪
♪After the storm, I think of you♪
♪In the little courtyard,
there you are dancing♪
♪When the world is covered in snow,
I still think of you♪
♪There is a small place♪
♪Where they carry big dreams♪
♪You belong to me, you see the light♪
♪Remember, that's me thinking of you♪
The fish is ready.
Here.
What's the occasion today?
You even cooked yourself.
Well,
I invited a friend over for dinner.
You made all this?
Of course.
You've improved.
What's wrong?
No matter how hard the test,
you'll have to face it.
If you fail,
I'll retake it with you.
All my life,
I've never failed once.
Are they here?
They are.
I'll get it.
Come on in.
Please, come in.
Come.
Dad, Mom,
let me introduce you.
This is Comrade Qu Hua.
He's a doctor.
We met in the disaster zone.
And this is his wife.
Dad.
Mom.
Have a seat.
Dad,
we brought a small gift.
You shouldn't have. Come.
Mujing, sit.
Mom,
I knitted you a scarf.
This scarf...
It suits you.
When I was in Yunnan,
I received one, too,
exactly the same as this.
And a letter
about cutting ties.
I made this one identical on purpose.
I made a mistake.
I want to make it right.
Eat without me.
Jing.
Mujing, it's fine.
Come, sit.
Qu Hua...
Let them talk.
Let's just be honest.
I was selfish.
I didn't want to give up my future.
That was my fault.
I'm the only one to blame.
Today, I just want to admit it,
and accept
the consequences.
I only ask
for a chance to make it right.
When you're young and writing in pencil,
if you make a mistake,
you can erase it.
When you grow up and write in ink,
even if you scratch it out,
the stain remains.
So are we still a family?
Still mother and daughter?
You were the one who cut ties.
Yes, I did.
But that was to get
into the math project team.
You don't know how much I endured,
how many cold looks,
just because
my surname is Fang.
My very name was the reason
I was looked down on.
You could've changed your name.
I could change my name,
but can I change this face?
My nose, my eyes?
Can I change the blood in my veins?
That all came from you.
You've always taught me
that I was
born for mathematics,
that my whole life should
be devoted to it.
I devoted it.
And then what?
Mom,
this might be
the last time I call you that.
If you don't want us
to be family anymore,
let's make it clear today.
Cut ties with me again.
At least I'll know where I stand.
From now on,
we'll be two parallel lines.
I'll never cross paths with you again.
Are you done?
Fang Mujing,
this house is small.
Where else can I hide?
Dad,
I'll get going.
Mom, I'm coming in.
They say
you don't hit a smiling face.
You embarrassed Qu Hua.
Go see him tomorrow.
Apologize for me.
Alright.
You're right.
Everyone makes mistakes.
Give her a chance to apologize.
I didn't think
you two were that close.
We're not that close.
I just like my brother-in-law.
Mom,
sit down.
back then,
my sister had no choice.
And whoever does?
During those years in Yunnan,
you wrote to us often,
and sent us money.
We were afraid of dragging you down,
so we didn't dare reply.
But your sister?
Did she ever write us a single letter?
Later,
I took the initiative to write to her,
asking how she was,
whether she'd been mistreated.
She never replied.
In the end,
what I received
was that letter.
Every so often,
I take it out
and read it.
I want to remind myself
that I no longer
have a daughter.
Give me that letter someday.
I'll burn it.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Yang,
I'm not afraid of hurting you.
I'll be honest.
I always favored your sister,
because I thought she was like me,
that she would
achieve something in academia.
All those years of favoritism
led to this outcome.
Mom,
doesn't that prove
your teaching worked?
Isn't mathematics
about absolute rationality?
You just said it yourself.
She's like you.
Rational,
and stubborn.
So for her,
cutting ties with us
was the most rational choice.
It's hard to accept emotionally,
but in reality, we lost nothing.
That's the optimal solution.
Mom,
a family
can never fall apart.
We've already been
separated for so long.
We shouldn't keep punishing ourselves
for past mistakes.
Oh, Mom.
The money I sent you all these years
was from my sister.
She must have known
I would pass it on to you.
Do you also think
I'm an unfilial daughter?
♪After the laughter, I think of you♪
♪After the storm, I think of you♪
♪In the little courtyard,
there you are dancing♪
♪That earnest you,
smiling so innocently♪
♪In spring, I stay by your side♪
♪When summer comes, I watch over you♪
♪In the light of dawn, you belong to me♪
♪At the edge of the world,
I will still hold you tight♪
♪There is a small place♪
♪Where they carry big dreams♪
♪Every lovely face♪
♪Shines brightly in the heart♪
♪Even when we collide,
we hold our course♪
♪Even when we stumble,
we keep our resolve♪
♪My you, walking toward the distance♪
♪Please carry our dreams
and let them soar♪